# Deck of Cards (Appian Work Product)

### Class 1: Card
- Card.java represents one singular card which is the building block of the deck. 
- Each card has a value (A,2-9,T,J,Q,K) and a suit (c,s,h,d), both of which are characters. 
- There is one 2-parameter constructor for this class which initializes both aforementioned fields. 
- There are accessors for each attribute, however there are no mutators because a cards value or suit should never need to be modified. 
- The overwritten toString method returns a card in the format "vs" where v is the value and s is the suit.

### Class 2: Deck

- Deck.java represents the entire 52-card playing deck.
- There is an array of 52 Cards which is the deck itself. It will be populated when the 0-parameter constructor is called upon instantiation.
- The populateDeck method initially populates a deck with 52 new cards. It iterates over every value in the "cardVals" array; and for each value it iterates over each suit in the "suits" array, creating a total of 52 cards. Note that both "cardVals" and "suits" are marked final as they should never be modified.
- The "dealt" attribute tracks the top of the deck for the purpose of dealing cards.

#### shuffle()

- The shuffle method has no return value but after being called results in the deck being randomly permuted. 
- For the random seeding, the java.util.Random library is used.
- Starting at the first location in the deck and iterating over each Card, a random deck location is generated every iteration. The current Card and the Card residing at the random location are then swapped. It is possible that a Card remains in the same place, which is OK. After a certain position x has been filled with a random swap, x can no longer be generated by the random number generator [i + rand.nextInt(52 - i)]. 

#### dealOneCard()

- The dealOneCard method returns the card at the top of the deck to the caller, as is done is most card games.
- When a card is dealt, the "dealt" attribute is incremented to represent that card being removed from the deck. That card can no longer be dealt until the deck is reset and shuffled. 
- Using the "dealt" attribute, the dealOneCard method ensures that--once all cards are dealt--if the caller requests another card, an error will be thrown and no card will be returned.

#### Other methods
- The showDeck method displays all cards presently in the deck.
- The resetDeck method resets the top of the deck so no cards are presently dealt and shuffles the deck.
- The getSize method returns the current size of the deck (not including dealt cards).


### Class 3: Driver

- 3 test cases are provided to demonstrate functionality of each class and method. Uncomment each and run to see.

